Welcome back.
Hopefully we survive the lambdas lecture.
I know it's a lot in this video.
I'm going to show you a built in function called Map which you can use lambdas with and it's pretty
common use case for them.
OK so a map is a standard function that accepts at least two arguments a function to call.
So we pass in a function to map and an iterable something we can iterate over lists strings dictionaries
tuples and sets and what it will do.
Whatever function we pass in which is usually a lambda.
It will run that lambda for each value in the list or the string or whatever the iterable is and then
it returns a collection at the end.
It's called a map object.
We'll get into that later that contains kind of the new version of everything.
So here's an example.
I have a list called names and let's say I want to double every number in that list.
Very simple.
All you need to do is use map just like this.
And I'm going to make new variable I'm going to call it doubles so I'll save the result and I'll run
a map.
And then there's two arguments.
So the second one we want to be Nom's So we'll start there.
But then the first one is a function.
And so we could write a function called double and have it take a single argument and then return two
times the argument.
Or we could use a lambda like this and I'll just call this I don't know X and then we'll just do two
or X times two it doesn't matter.
Just like that.
So what this is saying map takes this function.
This lambda and this numbs the list and it's going to call this on every single item in Nomes.
So it's going to start taking two and passing it in and returning to times to show for it and then it's
going to put that in a new list.
Technically it's not a list.
We'll get there and it's going to do that for every item in numbs.
And if we did look at doubles what we get is this map object which is something we can iterate over.
So if we wanted to we could just do a you know for Nahm in doubles print numb and in parentheses and
we get 4 8 12 16 20 or if we run it again I could just convert doubles to an actual list and that's
what we get here.
One thing that's interesting is that these map objects can only be iterated once.
So if I look at doubles now and I tried to do list doubles again
it's empty and I need to recreate it but that's not really that doesn't matter because typically what
you would do is just turn it into a list like this.
List map Lamda X such a nightmare of syntax and just look at here.
But if you look at doubles now we get 4 8 12 16 20.
So let me show you another example.
This time I have a list of people and I want to make a new list where we just have you know upper case
for the entire name so uppercase Darcy Krystina and so on I could do that pretty easily with math and
you might be thinking you could use a list comprehension and that is true.
I'll talk about that in a moment but let's start by making a variable just called peep's equals.
And then we'll do math.
And the first thing we do is a Lamda and we'll take a name and then the expression will just be named
dot upper comma and then we pass in people and then we need to turn it into a list.
And if you look at what we get.
It's a list where every person every item in that list is now uppercase.
So in the slides I have the same example of just doubling.
But then here's something new.
We have a list called names but it's each item in the list is a dictionary first and last are the two
keys.
If I wanted to get an end result of just the first names in a list I could use map and the lambda all
that it does for parameter x so for each one here the expression is just X first.
So the first key give us the value which is Rustie cold and blue.
And we're doing it on names.
So it runs this for every item and names resulting with this list after we convert it to a list.
OK.
So as I did mention this is a common use case for lambdas.
You don't have to use the lambda.
We could make a function let's call it def and we could do double to go back to what we had earlier
and double takes an X and it returns X times to
and then you know we can call double on three and we get six perfect.
So if I recall my numbers from way back
we could just do this map and then we pass in double.
So this is nice and clean looking but you have to define an individual function every time to do that.
And now if I look at list doubles I get the same results but at the end of the day we could have just
done this and done it all in a single line with a lambda because they do the exact same thing.
Taken Single number return x times that are x times to double the number.
Same thing here.
There's just no name.
No no intermediate step involved.
And we get the same result.
OK.
I know it's kind of overwhelming.
And we have kind of been skirting around the fact that we can use a list comprehension to do the exact
same thing.
I'm going to talk about that but not until the next video.
So if you have had that thought hang on to it it's a rational thing to think because this is a lot of
syntax for something we could achieve without this syntax without Alamdar without map.
And we just use a list comprehension but we'll get there.
So next up I'm going to show you something called philtre which is very very similar in the sense that
we can use a lambda but it does something different.
That's the worst explanation of ever given.
Anyway I'll do a better job with the next video.